[Applause]
remember this last time you were here
was right before you won the Oscar for
the Last King of Scotland
yeah and away I feel partly responsible
for it like I can see that a lucky charm
if you will I know can I rub you you rub
me all you like yes go ahead
oh so well it's very good to see you
how's everything going you doing well
everything's going really well I'm
really excited
what do you free time when you have an
Oscar do you like will you bring that to
the set when you start a new production
just to let everybody know what's what I
don't think we talked about that much
[Laughter]
does he give you a cut like for instance
I know a lot of actors will though
they'll feel nervous before they on the
first day or first week or whatever do
you have that anymore
at all you know I get nervous all the
time honestly if I don't feel a little
nervous I don't think it's gonna turn
out to be great you know what I think
interesting shows me you know I'm doing
something special that something new
something fresh you know it makes you
work harder when you you're nervous or
no yeah I wish I thought as the years
went by that the nerves would go away
but sometimes even though I think I
figured something out next time I'm
doing something it's getting even more
nervous than the time before
have you ever not figured it out
unfortunately I think I have yeah yeah
yeah I have not figured it out you have
not so this character bumpy you play is
a real gut what was a real guy he's
deceased now yeah tell us about this
story because it's very interesting we
bumpy Johnson was he ran the mob in
Harlem uh-huh and they called him bumpy
because he had a bump on his head right
it is true yeah yeah and well he comes
out he comes out of Alcatraz out of the
prison and he's trying to re-establish
himself back in Harlem as the head of
Harlem as a godfather Harlem against the
Italian mob and when we see it we see
him like meeting and intersecting you
know the the the civil rights movement
and the criminal world because his best
friend in that time is is Malcolm X and
so we start to try to understand the
movement of the community where he can
move his America movies businesses and
different things like that through his
family hi protects his family it's
actually quite a great exploration of of
like trying to understand
what it like what it's like to try to
achieve the American dream by any means
necessary
yeah right wow that's something this is
a guy this is your project your
executive producer and star of this
project is this a guy you knew about
four years or did you find out about him
shortly before this I knew about him for
years because I seen him in films but
uh-huh I didn't understand the depth of
his personality so you'd seen actual
footage of him
it's meaning no I could have fun you
know he was very secretive so I could
only find like maybe make four or five
photographs of him oh I couldn't find
anything to listen to it I was like
going by what people told me by
interviews that I was doing what did you
talk to I talked to some of the guys
that worked with him oh yeah Wow a
tattoo
now what old guys now right are they
right yeah like Siri like real old G's
and yeah yeah like I was Chisholm
junebug
they are like both were advised I mean
there was a man named professor smalls
who took over the Moskva Malcolm left
and he was advising me I had a lot of
different people helping me and it all
started really from this guy Marquand
Smith who who like really had been close
to the family Hill tried to push this
project forward for 18 years and Wow and
I I sort of got inside of that and
started to push the story forward with
him with with these great writers like
Chris Mercado and they just it just
started to find itself did they tell you
stories that well I obviously had told
you things you didn't know but stories
about themselves that that shocked you
you know what shocked me was you know we
were talking about the 60s and it was
like the best time of their lives and
they looked at it like with so much
nostalgia as there was a moment that
they could feel themselves that they
knew their strengths that they
understood their power and that they
were in control of their lives
hmm so it was really interesting uh yeah
to a certain extent I would imagine that
that there is an element of fun to that
being a part of something like that
yeah I mean it's hard because you know
that the show really depicts like the
difference between when he's trying to
help the community and what he's doing
to harm the community yeah and so trying
to understand these two things about
this world and this man and the people
that I was dealing with is something
that the show really touches on the
soundtrack is getting a lot of attention
Swizz Beatz
is here is he your music director
producer producer yeah created like I
don't know maybe two songs for every
show that we do actually every episode
isn't like two new songs that come out
because we try to get the music to feel
the heartbeat of the day but still like
be about the issues of what we were
looking at in the show which is about
opiate crisis it deals with issues of
polarity you know like of the power
struggles between black and white and
and having have-nots trying to deal with
so many different issues and you know
black lives matter issues you know me
two issues it's a lot of things that
happen inside of the show in the inner
working and the fabric of the emotions
of the show Swizz Beatz got or dmx is
involved in the music who hoards get the
other parts Rick Ross Rick Ross now
himself Ferg you got Dave East antenna
this is just a buddy it's a lot of
different artists I have been seeing a
lot of people writing about the
soundtrack of amazing you are
speaking of kind of classic movie
soundtracks last times at ridgemont high
was that the first movie you big malt
certainly big movie that you did it was
it was yeah
and how old were you when you made that
move it was about I guess I was 19 so
you were just out of high school were
you in college at the college and then
classmates for Alex idiot at the Edwards
and Eric Stoltz of those guys Wow yeah
and of course Sean Penn played Spicoli
and he yeah and he wrecked your car as I
recall what was what was a young Sean
Penn like working with Sean at that time
he was really into the character like
totally you know that he's at the method
approach oh so I remember one time him
and my brother the kid who played my
brother we're standing behind me they
were like having this long discussion
about how they were gonna steal my back
you know
[Laughter]
really Wow that's pretty crazy do you
ever go back and look at that movie I
see it sometimes it plays it's kind of a
classic I would think so did you go back
to college after that or did you say
alright well I'm in the movies now no I
you know what I didn't feel like I was
good enough to be a film I did that
already so I wanted to go away so I
actually left Los Angeles I was a
conservatory here went up north so that
I could study some more so I could get
better at my craft before I actually got
played permanently on film so it was
different kind of thing Wow well it's
great to have you here part Whitaker
everybody I am Jimmy Kimmel if you want
to see all our latest videos click the
subscribe button and if you don't click
anyway and close your eyes when they
come on